[faint music]
MATT: Let's see. This is not-- Hello everyone! I
don't know if it went onto Twitter or not, and I'm
glad you guys could join. I got a haircut, as I'm
sure some of you see. It was absolutely necessary
because it got way too long out of laziness and
I'd like to cut it more often than I had, and it'd
become just a mane of ridiculousness. At least
here it'll have a chance to grow. It's not that
far from the length I had when the show first
started, so it's not completely out of the blue, I
don't think. I'm also a pacer as I talk, so I
apologize if you keep seeing the background shift.
Sorry about that. Marisha and Marisha's dad are
here as well, and we've all been doing work around
the place as we go. I'll show you a little bit,
now. Been getting some work done over here. Say
hi, Marisha!
MARISHA: Hi guys! Did you show them our new
floors?
MATT: No, I haven't shown them. Right now
we got new tile floors in here. Much better than
the crappy grandma floors we had before. Say hi to
Mark, Marisha's dad.
MARK: Hello.
MATT: There
you go. I thought you guys could chill for a
little bit here today, during International
Tabletop Day. Me and Liam will be up at the studio
in a few hours, at 9:30 Pacific to play a game
called Everyone is John. For those of you who
aren't familiar with it, it's very strange and
fun, and I've never played it before, so I'm
excited. But yeah! This is primarily a bunch of
Critmas that was left over: some packages that
either didn't make it in time, got caught in the
mail, or whatever case it may be. We have a bunch
more letters and things here we're going to open
and say thank yous. We don't have the full cast
here. We'll be opening them for them and then
making little piles for what goes to who so we can
deliver them to them next time we see them,
hopefully this Thursday. Possibly more minis? I
don't know. I'm waiting on Marisha to get out of the
bathroom here so we can actually begin. In the
meantime, you guys feel like you want to throw any
questions here until we're ready, I'm happy to do
a little Q&A. I don't know if they're any more
minis; we'll find out. I'm never against that
idea. Yes, haircut. I know it's crazy, right? What
the heck, it's all gone? Only the chunks of it.
Cool thing is it glows-- grows back. It glows
back. That'd be a little weird. People are
freaking out about the hair, this is kind of
funny.
MARISHA: I accidentally took a shower on
when I [inaudible].
MATT: Are you serious?
Marisha accidentally turned the shower on herself.
MARISHA: I'm a little wet. I hate it
when that happens. Hi guys, did you show them your
mini organization?
MATT: No, I showed them a
little bit last time. I can show them, it's grown
a little bit.
MARISHA: It's getting updated,
slowly but surely. We have so little time.
MATT: For those who are asking what's a good place to
get minis, aside from your local comic shops and
game stores, which have the packages. If you're
looking for specific ones you can go to
miniaturemarket.com, Troll and Toad, eBay actually
has a good mini selection. Or you can order the
unopened boxes from Amazon as well if they're in
stock. Hero Forge is new material, which is a much
higher quality material, which is great. Any tips
you have to get your wife into D&D? Show her some
Acquisitions Inc. or Critical Role or something
and see if it's something she'd be into. If she
likes narrative, if she likes storytelling, or if
she likes being random with her friends and having
silly times in a fantasy world, then hopefully
that'll be just a little push to get on there.
Tips on painting minis? There's plenty of great
YouTube channels that do step-by-step tutorials on
miniature painting that I highly recommend. I
don't know any off the top of my head, but you can
search "painting war miniatures" or "fantasy
miniatures." There's a lot of great tutorials, but
as an overview, you want to make sure you do a
dark coat first. If you want more muddled colors
do a dark primer, or lighter primer if you want
brighter colors to come out in the final model.
Then you just paint the model, all the colors you
want in different places. Then you do a wash,
which is like an ink wash pass on the model, and
what it does is it seeps into the nooks and
crannies and giving the appearance of shadow and
shading. Then you do dry-brushing. You take a
stiff brush, usually small, and dip lighter colors
than what the base coats were; fairly brighter but
the same tone. Then you brush it on a paper towel
or a small towel on the side until most of the
paint is off the brush, just a little bit. Then
you dust the highest ridges of the darker color in
places where it is, and it gives the appearance of
shine and light sourcing, which is kind of fun. If
you go on YouTube, there's a lot of really great
in-depth tutorials you can find there. "Any
"possibility of attending a Scottish con?" You got
to get a Scottish con to invite us! I would love
that. Scotland I've never been to. It's where my
family's background is, and I would absolutely
adore the chance to go to Scotland, so hopefully.
If you know any cons nearby, tell them to invite
us. That'd be great. Anyway, here's the mini
cabinet. It is growing larger and larger and
organization is progressing, piece by piece. Then
of course we have Thordak over there. I have a
problem. I have a serious problem. What are my
thoughts on monks? Monks are awesome. Monks are
amazing. They're a great class that I think is
underused, and I think a lot of people have a hard
time finding a way to fit it into a fantasy
setting, but I don't think it's hard at all,
especially if you watch Conan. You find that kind
of -- and consider back in those time periods,
there was that transition between the East and the
West, Europe, Silk Road to China and that whole
circumstance. There's a lot of cultural influences
you can pull from that transition and that time
period that can be a fun stylistic way to
incorporate your monk into a campaign. Or just
consider the different deities and different gods
of the pantheon prefer the idea of martial control
and training as a means of purifying one's spirit
and soul and so that makes a cool drive for a
character. Monks are just great in combat. They're
fun. You can do a lot of unique and interesting
maneuvers and flavor them well. If you love any
Bruce Lee or Jackie Chan films, it's great. Let's
see. Will I be playing the Overwatch beta? I hope
so. I'll be playing the crap out of Overwatch when
it comes in. I've just finally started Dark Souls
III last night. Haven't had time until then, and
even then, it was midnight to 2:00 AM. I was like,
"Okay, I'll make a character," and I spent a while
trying to decide what to do. I made two: I made
Lady Kima and Grog Strongjaw. I'm actually tearing
through the game as Grog right now, which is kind
of funny. I figure it's a good way. Positive
thoughts to your wife's surgery. All the positive
thoughts, crossed hearts, thumbs up, crossed
fingers, all the good stuff. If wanted to play a
dwarf bard, what college would I be in? Oh, man. I
lend myself to the Lore college, because I like
the expansion of spell use, but for the dwarf
bard, I'd probably end up going Valor, because I
like the idea of him being more aggressive and
battle-oriented. But that's just me. Dwarf versus
elf? I'm probably going to go dwarf. Elves get a
lot of love in most media. I think dwarves are
underappreciated a lot of times, and they're one
of my favorite races, so dwarf, definitely. How
many times has Grog died so far in Dark Souls?
Three, which is not bad, considering. I've played
a lot of Souls games, so I know most of the
tricks. Your bard is multiclassing into blood
hunter? That's amazing! (laughs) Oh, thank you,
Meghan, it's coming along. The house is coming
along, bit by bit. Do I happen to do any DM tip
videos? I did eight of them in the first run;
we're hoping to go back and do more soon.
Scheduling has been a nightmare lately. I have
already ideas and outlines for future episodes,
but if you are chafing at the bit, Matt Colville
actually does an amazing series, far more in-depth
than anything I've done, on tips and tricks of
dungeon master-ing and building your own world. I
highly recommend you look him up on YouTube. Look
up "Matt Colville DM Tips," and his videos are
fantastic, so highly recommend those. Ah, Marisha,
are you ready?
MARISHA: I am so ready.
MATT: All right, so we shall begin the opening. I
went great axe man for Grog, couldn't help it. All
right, we're turning this around on Marisha now.
Hi, Marisha.
MARISHA: Hi, how are you guys? (kisses) How's
everyone doing?
MATT: Everyone seems to be doing good and says
hello.
MARISHA: So yeah, Matt's freshly showered and
blew-dried his hair. I've been doing construction
work on the house all day.
MATT: It's okay, I looked like a hobo about an
hour ago.
MARISHA: I had sawdust in my hair. I've been
cutting down dead trees and pressure-washing the
house and doing manual labor because he hates
doing manual labor. Okay, so am I just picking a
box and opening one, just like Christmas?
MATT: Yeah, boxes, letters, whichever one you want
to do.
MARISHA: Oh my goodness gracious.
MATT: Scissors are there. You've got your cider.
You've got your chai. By the way, check out this
awesome mug.
MARISHA: Hey, got it from Wizards of the Coast.
MATT: One of the gifts they gave me when I was up
there this past week.
MARISHA: I think it's my dad's new favorite mug.
He's been using it for coffee since he's been
here. My dad really likes it. All right, I'm
digging, because I see--
MATT: They're asking where you got your leggings.
MARISHA: I got these in one of those hundreds of
different leggings stores where all leggings, ten
dollars stores.
MATT: It's off Melrose, isn't it?
MARISHA: Off Melrose, yeah. So it's not like a
brand.
MATT: Who is this for and from?
MARISHA: We'll find out, but it's another
Adopt-a-Species.
MATT: Awesome.
MARISHA: I like those. It says Travis Willingham
on it, but that could just be because they wanted
to put a name.
MATT: Someone said, "Air holes, uh-oh."
(laughter)
MARISHA: This is neat. From the World Wildlife
Federation. Ooh, what's it say? Oh, this is a gorilla.
MATT: Oh, nice!
MARISHA: Aww, no, it is for Grog. Said "Dear Grog,
This is a certificate of acknowledgement for Grog
"Strongjaw." Someone adopted a gorilla. The problem
with these is they don't often tell you--
MATT: Who sent it?
MARISHA: Who sent it, and it's very frustrating. I
don't know how to fix that problem.
MATT: Well, whoever sent the gorilla, you're
amazing.
MARISHA: And there it is!
MATT: Aww, look at the gorilla!
MARISHA: (growls) I love the Adopt-a-Species
through the National Zoo. It's such a fantastic
organization. Thank you guys so much! Yeah, let us
know, whoever adopted the gorilla for Grog, and we
will deliver it for him.
MATT: Do you want to go ahead and put that in the
Grog pile?
MARISHA: Put that in the Grog pile, okay. Here's
another one for Travis.
MATT: The Grog pile is there. That's the Grog
pile. Another Travis gift?
MARISHA: Wait, let me do this one, though. It's
heavy.
MATT: I like how I brought scissors, but Marisha
decided to bring her knife out. That's why I love her.
MARISHA: Knives are more efficient. That sounded
really sadistic, but that's not what I was going for.
MATT: That's quite all right.
MARISHA: Ooh. Oh my goodness gracious. To
overlords. Oh, to Overlords. It's a letter for
Overlords, I don't want to read it, just in case
he's-- To Critical Role cast. Two extra packs.
What's going on? "Dear Critical Role, Thank you so
much for all the enjoyment you've brought me and
"all the other Critters. I'll keep it short by
simply saying thank you for letting us into your
"world. I laugh with you, cheer with you, cry with
you. Amazing ride so far. May it continue for much
"longer. Since you bring me so much joy I figured a
gift that would bring you and your close ones joy
"would be fitting, so I hope you'll enjoy these
custom playing cards."
MATT: What?
MARISHA: "Love, Emily @emilyfantasies." Oh my
god.
MATT: (laughs) That's awesome!
MARISHA: Holy crap. And she sent--
MATT: That's so cool!
MARISHA: One, two, three, four, five, six, seven,
eight, nine, ten. So it says, "The two extra
"packs--" Which, I mean, to be fair, me and you can
share a pack, and I'm sure Laura and Travis can
share a pack, and we'd have a few extra ones.
MATT: Yeah, we can put a few extras as giveaways
to Critters.
MARISHA: Yeah. "The two extra packs can be given
to whomever you wish, perhaps to some of the
"people featured on the cards, like Kit, Wil, and
Mary or to lucky Critters in a giveaway or even to
"the kids at 826, who I'm sure would love to play
card games too. I'll let you decide."
MATT: Oh, snap.
MARISHA: Wait a second. Look at these really nice
art boxes too. Don't ruin the cards. Sorry, this
is boring. Look at that. These are great,
actually. (laughs)
MATT: What? Show us.
MARISHA: The Jack.
MATT: Oh, check it out! It's Lillith as the Jack!
That's so cool!
MARISHA: Queen is Cassandra.
MATT: Cassandra is the Queen.
MARISHA: Percy is the King.
MATT: Percy. He's the King.
MARISHA: Guess who's the Joker?
MATT: Briarwoods?
MARISHA: No.
MATT: Buzzsaw outside with the door open?
MATT: Scanlan.
MARISHA: No.
MATT: (laughs) I'm the Joker, that's rad. My
pupils are dice, that's got to be painful.
MARISHA: (laughs) That's great.
MATT: Yeah, that's a trip to the emergency room.
MARISHA: Those are really nice cards. That's
fantastic.
MATT: And so cute! Aww.
MARISHA: You guys.
MATT: Thank you, guys.
MARISHA: Thank you. This was @emilyfantasies.
Thank you, Emily.
MATT: Thank you, Emily.
MARISHA: Thank you, Emily. These are so great.
They better freak out about these.
MATT: Should I go close the glass door? Hold this
for a second.
MARISHA: I'm going to put these back, then I'll
have a free hand. Okay. Two extra packs, what to
do with two extra packs. Oh my goodness gracious.
You guys, you outdo yourselves every time.
MATT: All righty. Next up. These cards are for
everybody. Put this in the everybody pile.
MARISHA: Let's see what this is. That goes to the
Overlords.
MATT: All righty. That's Ryan and Cookie. The
gentle sounds of buzzsawing in the background.
It's a relaxing day for me.
MARISHA: We could turn the music up a little bit,
if you want. Help drown it out, blend with it.
MATT: No, I kind of like it.
MARISHA: You kind of like it?
MATT: It adds texture to the atmosphere.
MARISHA: (gasps) Oh!
MATT: What?
MARISHA: Someone just sent us the best VO care
package.
MATT: What is it?
MARISHA: Someone's been paying attention.
MATT: The buzzsaw is Marisha's dad cutting a bunch
of scrap wood in the backyard to get rid of it.
MARISHA: No, he's making a frame for the door to
the water heater.
MATT: I now know what he's doing.
MARISHA: (laughs) (singing) Who sent this? I'm
trying to figure this out.
MATT: (singing) Is it on the front?
MARISHA: (singing) Give me a second.
MATT: (singing) Who's the mysterious benefactor?
MARISHA: A gift for you. "If I didn't hear it from
them, then it must have been a Rob Paulsen
"podcast. At least I think this is what they were
talking about. I used to use these a lot. Thank
"you for how you inspire us. Your fan,
@gnacinojay." G-N-A-C-
MATT: Let me see it.
MARISHA: But, these are fantastic. Taliesin swears
by these. They are the honey loquat candy, the
honey loquat cough drops.
MATT: Oh, snap. The same people who make the Nin
Jiom Pei Pa Koa.
MARISHA: It's the Nin Jiom Pei Pa Koa, but in
cough drop form, which is fantastic.
MATT: Oh, this is glorious. That is the "Fred
juice" in candy form.
MARISHA: Oh my god.
MATT: "Fred juice," I should explain.
MARISHA: That's amazing. "Fred juice," yeah.
MATT: There's this Chinese cough syrup stuff that
this is actually the candy form of that Fred
Tatasciore, who's an incredibly talented voice
actor who's the voice of the Hulk in pretty much
all of Marvel's stuff discovered as a way of
coating your throat and protecting it during
really rough voice-over sessions. Because he
discovered it, it's called "Hulk juice," "Fred
juice." It's weird no matter how you say it, but
someone was paying attention and got us some candy.
MARISHA: We call it "boom-boom juice."
MATT: "Boom-boom juice?"
MARISHA: I don't know.
MATT: That's pretty fun.
MARISHA: I've heard it been called a lot of
things.
MATT: You made an amazing thing! You're just being
silly, Meghan. We appreciated them all, thank you--
MARISHA: This already looks (gasps) incredible.
MATT: What is that? Is it all books from people?
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: What the heck?
MARISHA: These popped open, so I'm trying to get
them back into a more presentary form before I
pull them out. These are crayons.
MATT: Crayons?
MARISHA: Gilmore's Glorious Color Sticks.
MATT: (laughs)
MARISHA: They even say "Gilmore's" on the crayon.
MATT: (as Gilmore) "Of course they do, they're
glorious."
MARISHA: And we each have books--
MATT: Oh, please tell me these are coloring books.
I'm going to freak out.
MARISHA: Oh?
MATT: Was I right?
MARISHA: You're going to-- Okay, hang on. Let me
see. I'm trying to figure it out. Look, normally
we sort these things beforehand and get an idea
and I didn't. "To the cast of Critical Role: I
"have to admit, I never considered writing a letter
to someone who has no idea who I am before, but
"after seeing Critmas happen so many times and
seeing your honest delight in hearing from people
"who love the show, it seemed like the most natural
thing in the world. I found books included in this
"package are my way of saying thank you for sharing
your adventures with us--" Oh, "the books included
"in this package." Sorry, it's been a long day. "I
found the show at a time when I really needed it.
"Laughing out loud was something I hadn't been
doing much of late. Life is pretty good, but
"depression lies, and had been quite convincing for
a while." It goes on: "I've enjoyed every moment
"of learning how to bind books." Okay, wait. "I
love to see all the wonderful things you create--"
(reading quickly, mumbling) "I can't draw,
although I'm learning, or paint, but I recently
"stumbled--" Okay. "But I can use InDesign. I
recently create and modify forms for a living, and
"I have recently stumbled across a tutorial for
book-binding. I've enjoyed every moment of
"learning how to bind books; creative and exacting
at the same time. It's certainly experimental, as
"the first few tries were unsurprisingly failures--
but the good kind, where you learn. A book with a
"wrapped book-board cover looks weird, let me tell
you. The books I've sent are far from perfect. I
"shake my first and eat the pages, but I'm proud of
them. In a bit more than a month, I've learned to
"create hardcover books and they're functional,
individual, and fun to create."
MATT: That's so cool!
MARISHA: That's amazing. "Thank you for sharing
your adventures and infectious joy in the game and
"each other and your honest pleasures and
interacting with people who wish we could be
"adventuring with you." Aw.
MATT: Aw, you are adventuring with us.
MARISHA: You absolutely are. From Lori Otis, which
is @otis_lori on Twitter, which I know I've seen
tweets from her before.
MATT: Thank you, Lori! That's so cool!
MARISHA: Thank you so much, Lori. Look, Vex and
the twins. Oh my god! It's a ledger book.
MATT: That's cool!
MARISHA: Oh, this is for Vex and Trinket, I'm
sorry. Look at this, it's got date, items, balance
carried forward, debit, and credit. It's an
accounting book. Look how gorgeous that is.
MATT: That's so cute.
MARISHA: Oh, this one's mine.
MATT: What's in your book?
MARISHA: Oh my god!
MATT: Of course Vex would have the ledger, because
she's the money-taker.
MARISHA: Well, I'm the note-taker, so mine's a
notebook, but look at these note pages with the
trees-- and the eagle! It's got an eagle in it.
MATT: That's so cool!
MARISHA: That's fantastic. These are handmade
hardcover books that someone made custom for each
of us.
MATT: Hi, Mark.
MARK: Hey, how are you guys?
MARISHA: Meet my dad.
MARK: That's nice.
MARISHA: This is the book that they made for me.
MARK: Custom made?
MARISHA: Yeah. I already read it, but she said she
spent a month learning how to bind books. So
here's Matt's.
MARK: She did a good job.
MARISHA: Oh my god, look. Yours has dragons in it,
babe!
MATT: Damn right, it does! (laughs)
MARISHA: That's so cool.
MATT: That's so cool, thank you so much, Lori!
MARISHA: Yours is awesome.
MATT: All right, we're going to have to give these
to the rest of the crew too.
MARISHA: Scanlan-- (squeaks)
MATT: What?
MARISHA: It's notes on one side and sheet music on
the other.
MATT: Oh snap.
MARISHA: It's a bard book-- and look, it's got a
lute on the side. Holy shit, you guys-- and yes,
Grog's, it says in here, "Travis, since Grog can't
read or write, I had a challenge on my hands. I
"had originally wanted to make Grog a coloring book
full of pictures of some kind, but I didn't want
"to use others' art without permission, so I put
some pictures of some of Grog's favorite kind of
"things-- couldn't find good line art of a
barmaid-- and left some room for him to be
"creative inside the box from Gilmore's. He can
take advantage of his vast knowledge of colors."
MATT: That's so good!
MARISHA: "Grog's character moments are some of my
favorites, and Grog and Craven Edge are some of my
"favorite comedy duo. Happy giving." She made him a
soft-bound coloring book.
MATT: (laughs) A cask of beer and an axe.
MARISHA: And an axe, and case.
MATT: (laughing) That's so cute!
MARISHA: And a Trinket bear, and a Craven Edge
sword.
MATT and MARISHA: That's adorable.
MARISHA: I'm selfish, I want to look and see what
all-- oh my god. Percy has graph paper on one side.
MATT: That's really cool.
MARISHA: And notes on the other. These are
fantastic. These are fantastic, Lori! Vax. What's
yours, Vax? Oh, of course, snakes and daggers.
That's great with the green. And Pike, oh, it's
Sarenrae's symbols! That's fantastic. Thank you so
much, Lori, these are gorgeous. I'm in love. Do
you want to trade off?
MATT: Sure, we can do that. Put this over in the
group pile. Ba da dow!
MARISHA: Want to take the hot seat? Here, you stay
there, I'll move over.
MATT: You're going to take from this side? All
right. Change in the guard!
MARISHA: Oh, do you want me to just flip?
MATT: Doesn't matter to me.
MARISHA: Yeah, that's fine. I want to stay on this
comfy new ottoman that I just bought.
MATT: This cardboard had already been opened, this
one as well. I'm trying to keep the boxes
organized so we don't trash up the place too bad.
Pull some of these over here. Now, this is to Travis.
MARISHA: What did Travis get?
MATT: Wonder if they had-- I don't see a name on
here, but it's sent from Half Price Books.
MARISHA: Ooh, I love the Half Price Books store!
Wait, is that Half Price Books from Kentucky? From Louisville?
MATT: Mesquite, Texas.
MARISHA: Oh, Texas. What were the ones from
Kentucky?
MATT: A letter. "Hey Grog, being a Cowboys fan, I
"thought you might like these for your collection.
"Check the front of each book." From Dim Dimmley.
To Grog.
MARISHA: Dim Dimmley.
MATT: Wright Up Front!
MARISHA: And Game On. Oh my god.
MATT: Oh, he's going to love those.
MARISHA: Insane.
MATT: Thank you, from Travis, to you Dim Dimmley.
We're going to pass those on to him. That also
goes in the Travis pile. Perfect, all right. Next
one. There's tape on this one. Probably-- Ha ha!
MARISHA: Scissors! Simple solutions for complex
problems.
MATT: Indeed. This one is-- I don't see a name on
it.
MARISHA: What's it say on the return address? Up
front.
MATT: That's what I'm looking.
MARISHA: Right there, on the label, isn't it?
MATT: I'm looking. Looks like the name is K1R757.
MARISHA: Dagon's totally taking a bath behind
you.
MATT: Oh, Dagon. Here's a letter, thank you. Huh.
"Hello. A while ago, Zac said the reason you do a
"song and dance to pour your water is because you
didn't want to advertise that you were drinking,
"so I made you some bags to put the bottles in."
(laughs)
MARISHA: Oh, like hobo bags?
MATT: They made alcohol bags.
MARISHA: Alkie bags? Oh shit, yeah. With labels!
MATT: With little plastic label things.
MARISHA: Oh my god, that's so great.
MATT: Oh, what? And a Minxie shirt. It's tied on
the sides, the way you like it.
MARISHA: Oh my gosh, I don't have to alter it. "I
would like to go Minxie."
MATT: Yeah.
MARISHA: That's so cute!
MATT: "To Marisha and Laura--"
MARISHA: That's so cute.
MATT: "The art on these shirts was done by an 11
year-old."
MARISHA: What.
MATT and MARISHA: "Don't be sad bear, be happy
bear."
MATT: That's adorable. "Done by an 11 year old.
She showed her teacher, who she said--" All right,
I need to read this for you guys. "The art on
these shirts was done by an 11 year old. She
"showed her teacher, who said she had no talent and
should give up on drawing, you would never like
"it. This 11 year old believed her teacher over me.
So I bought it from her and told her I would not
"give you the sheets, but that I would put it on a
t-shirt. She didn't believe me, so she agreed. Mom
"agreed too. It's a little smudged because my four
year old assisted me to put it on a t-shirt. I
"used a tutorial for Marisha's shirt. Please help
prove this teacher wrong." Well, you've already
proved this teacher wrong. These are awesome, and
I think everyone watching agrees. These are so cute!
MARISHA: Look at that. Well, I always need new
t-shirts for the show. That is so cute. That's so
adorable. "I would like to go Minxie."
MATT: I'm trying to see who this is from. Suzanne
LeBlanc. Sue LeBlanc b-- I can't-- ah, it's so
small! Your writing is really small, Suzanne, but
thank you so much! They're so cute.
MARISHA: Suzanne...
MATT: This is going to go in the Laura pile.
MARISHA: That's amazing.
MATT: Laura's pile's going right next to Travis's.
Just want to put them together so they get them both.
MARISHA: That's so cute, too. And also better art
than I can do, once again, I just want to point
that out.
MATT: It's a good thing to point out. This is from
Jeff Grower of Fulton, New York. Come to my aid,
fair blade. That rhymed.
MARISHA: (giggles)
MATT: It's the little things. It says Happy
Critmas on the box.
MARISHA: Everyone's like, "What an asshole
teacher." Yeah. Word.
MATT: Yeah. They're rare. There are a lot of
really good teachers out there. There are a few...
it's the nature of humanity. "Happy Critmas! Just
wanted to let you all know that I love your show.
"I started watching in December last year and have
gone back and watched every episode--" Nice. "You
"have become the one show I can't wait to watch
each week. You are all awesome. Enclosed is
"something that I hope brings you luck, in game and
out. These are real four-leaf clovers that I found
"myself--" What? "--and laminated with the Critical
Role logo. They are credit card-sized for carrying
"in a wallet."
MARISHA: Oh, that's so sweet.
MATT: "For a donation to charity, there is a
five-leaf clover. Whoever draws that, I'll make a
"donation to that person's charity." I'm going to
hold onto these and when we see the group on
Thursday, I'm going to have them pick, and whoever
draws it, Jeff's going to go ahead and make a
donation to that charity. So Jeff, we're going to
hold on to that.
MARISHA: That is a really good idea.
MATT: This is so cool! They're all legit-- and
there's the five-leaf. Boom! All right, shuffling
those up. We're going to bring those--
MARISHA: You must be a lucky man.
MATT: Apparently. I've never found one. I've
looked tremendously when I was a child.
MARISHA: Oh, really? You've never found one?
MATT: No!
MARISHA: That's actually really sad. I'm sorry.
MATT: It's okay. Things worked out all right. I
play D&D weekly on the internet. I'm very thankful
for all I have. This is to-- oh, this is to
Marisha Ray, it looks like, so I'm going to have
to turn this around on you, girl.
MARISHA: Ooh, okay.
MATT: Thank you, I don't feel too bad.
MARISHA: Sounds of hammering. Cut along the line.
MATT: (laughing) Bird overlord keeping them in
line. It's true. Dagon glares at us from above.
MARISHA: She does. She knows who is what.
MATT: Aw, hugs from Argentina! Hugs to you guys!
MARISHA: Argentina! All right, let us see. Ooh,
it's already fancy, oh my goodness gracious. Who
is this? What did you guys do?
MATT: I am visiting the east coast at MomoCon,
actually, in Atlanta, at the end of May. At the
end of next month, so if you're in the vicinity,
come say hello.
MARISHA: "Keyleth Vinespeaker." My favorite
nickname, still to this day. Look at that awesome
detail there.
MATT: That's insane.
MARISHA: Oh, The Madwife. This is from Madwife
Cinda, yet again. She says, "Marisha, The Madwife
"strikes again! In honor of Keyleth, I have made a
small donation this month to the International
"Tree Foundation." That's amazing. "Hopefully she
will never be short of a tree again when the party
"needs to fast travel." That's so amazing. "I'd
like to send a huge and heartfelt thank you once
"again to all of you for the fun and fabulous
storytelling. Love and hearts from Madwife Cinda.
"P.S. Good luck with the dragons." Thank you. Along
with the four leaf clovers. I think. Anything helps.
MATT: Dragons are long term. You guys have got a
bunch of feral herd members to worry about this week.
MARISHA: Yeah. To be fair, they are kind of like,
they have a dragon overlord right now.
MATT: True.
MARISHA: So it's kind of both at once. What is--
Oh, look at this!
MATT: Oh wow. That's so cute.
MARISHA: It's made out of book.
MATT: I love it.
MARISHA: That's so cute. Madwife Cinda. What is
this?
MATT: Hello to Nova Scotia from us as well.
MARISHA: Oh my goodness. More books! I always want
more books. Oh my god. Oh dude, what is this? Shut
up. The standard book of spells.
MATT: Oh snap.
MARISHA: That's awesome! And it's a notebook.
MATT: That's so cool! I love the style on the
inside cover too.
MARISHA: That's awesome. Oh she got this from the
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. That's
so cool I got a spellbook! I want to actually
write down--
MATT: Write your spells in it?
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: Do it!
MARISHA: Put spells in it.
MATT: That your subtle way of saying you do
spells?
MARISHA: Shut up. I've got a lot of spells, okay?
And I read them and just don't--
MATT: I'm just teasing you.
MARSHA: I get it a lot, okay?
MATT: I know. It's because the internet loves
you.
MARISHA: Let's see, what else is next?
MATT: We'll start grabbing from that pile.
MARISHA: I'll open the big one. How about that?
MATT: Okay, get that knife ready. Marisha's going
to open up the big one.
MARISHA: You do want to sit in the--
MATT: Yeah, I'll sit in our comfy ottoman that we
bought today for super cheap at a set--
MARISHA: At warehouse sales because I love cheap
shit.
MATT: Got to stretch that dollar.
MARISHA: Not that I like cheap shit, I like things
that are on sale. I'm a frugal bitch. Okay. Sorry.
Maybe we should pre-open some packages.
MATT: I know, time was not of the essence. An
outlook of the week.
MARISHA: We should have thought about that.
MATT: (sings) Styrofoam, bubble wrap.
MARISHA: There's a scroll that I think you should
read.
MATT: Because it has my name on it? Is that a
distinction?
MARISHA: That's one distinction.
MATT: That's really cool, it's like leather bound
and look at that. You should probably scoot that
over here, you're kind of back lit. Really dark.
MARISHA: I'm sorry.
MATT: That's okay. Oh, what's that?
MARISHA: I don't know; there's a gift for everybody
in there, but I think you should read the scroll first.
MATT: Okay. You want to hold this?
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: A wax seal? Are you kidding me? That's
amazing. I'm such a sucker for presentation. Get
this open here from the wax seal. If I can just
unseal it we'll be good. It's too sealed. The wax
has been-- For Vox Machina, it's doors; for me,
it's wax seals.
MARISHA: (laughs) Hey, that's not funny.
MATT: I think it's pretty hilarious.
MARISHA: You would.
MATT: Scissors come to my aid again.
MARISHA: Go, scissors, go. I'm going to steal
those scissors after you do. Oh wait, nevermind, I
got it.
MATT: I will not lose. There's more? No.
MARISHA: Now, these are very--
MATT: Boom. Open. What. Oh, the camera is freaking
out right now. Sorry about that, Marisha decided
to unwrap the present with you.
MARISHA: I got bored. Holy crap.
MATT: What is that?
MARISHA: A custom Keyleth figure in a box.
MATT: What!
MARISHA: Yeah. Oh my god. Take a look at the back.
Look at it!
MATT: That is ridiculous.
MARISHA: After your first attempt with the Sun
Tree-- You can try your luck with these. Who
knows, we may see this used in a game board some
day.
MATT: Okay, that's like one of the coolest things
to happen ever.
MARISHA: I know, that's amazing. I've always
wanted to be an action figure. Just want to throw
that out.
MATT: Now you are an action figure. What is this?
MARISHA: Oh cool! Check that shit out!
MATT: Who is this from?
MARISHA: I don't know. You had the scroll.
MATT: I was going to open it but you opened the
presents with the people.
MARISHA: Well they got a first-person view.
MATT: This is true. Ah man, all right. "Vox
Machina. I present to you gifts of appreciation
"and introduction. I, the acquirer of the arcane,
finder of the forgotten, and retriever of the
"rare, specializing in possession reassessment, all
for a fee of course, non-negotiable, sorry
"darlings, have two items for the each of you. The
first item is something you may have lost or may
"be of value in some fashion. The second is
representative of your legend. You have become
"icons in some circles. Created through alchemy and
tinkering what was once one thing is now another.
"Thus you shouldn't fear moving it from its
original packaging. Nothing more is asked of you.
"Just if we happen to cross paths in the future, it
will not be as strangers. Warmest regards, The
"Devilish Rogue." The Dullish Rogue? This font,
makes it difficult for me to see specifically what
it said. I'll say them all. The Devilish Rogue,
maybe? I like it. This is awesome.
MARISHA: This is rad. I need to plant my bonsai
tree stat.
MATT: I can't believe you got an action figure.
That's so awesome.
MARISHA: Let me see. You might have a something in
there. Here.
MATT: Oh no.
MARISHA: But there's gifts in here for everybody.
Oh yeah. I'll let everyone else open their own.
MATT: Yeah, we'll give those gifts to everyone
else and let them open them on their time.
MARISHA: But thank you Devilish Rogue, that's
incredible!
MATT: Here you go Marisha, hold this over my head.
Never mind.
MARISHA: Sorry.
MATT: It's okay. Here you go. We don't have a
fancy switchboard at home, unfortunately. Sorry
guys. One of these days. We'll have a crew that
runs our Periscopes.
MARISHA: We could get one of those little foam
tripods?
MATT: Yeah, like a selfie stick.
MARISHA: I don't know, we might have a selfie
stick. We moved and I don't know where anything is.
MATT: Hah! Scissors wins again. Unless it's the
first round of rocks, scissors, paper because
everyone picks scissors, so then rock would win.
(laughs) I did get an action figure! With the
blind wrapped around my face and the wig, the hair
uses my hair. That's so epic.
MARISHA: (laughs) That's so funny. That's so
great.
MATT: That's so cool. There are little stories on
the back too.
MARISHA: I know they put details onto the back--
MATT: There's a switch in the back and it makes my
eyes glow through the-- What! And it comes with
a little tome. With chains on it. That's so
badass.
MARISHA: That's amazing. What else is in there?
MATT: What to give the one who has two red
dragons? Seriously. Perhaps you can wear this on a
special night to instill a bit of fear. Uh-oh.
Instill a little fear? (laughs) That's really cool.
MARISHA: The DM rolled a what? (laughs)
MATT: This is the back of the shirt. The DM rolled
a what, and it's that picture.
MARISHA: Yup, that's what that looks like. For
sure. That's pretty rad.
MATT: That's so cool! Thank you, Rogue!
MARISHA: Thank you, Devilish Rogue!
MATT: That's so cool. Let's do... This is from D&D
Dice. To Critical Role. Here we go. Oh snap! It's
a whole cluster of brushed aluminium D20s for the
whole crew.
MARISHA: Oh shit!
MATT: That's so cool!
MARISHA: Oh wow.
MATT: There's no name on this one.
MARISHA: There's no name on it? No!
MATT: Someone...?
MARISHA: I hate it when this happens.
MATT: Well, whoever it is that sent us these
awesome metal dice. Thank you so very much. And we
will be happy to deliver these to the rest of the
team.
MARISHA: Those are amazing. That's awesome. Thank
you, guys.
MATT: That's fantastic. All righty.
MARISHA: D&D Dice.
MATT: Here you open some. We'll switch it off.
MARISHA: You want me to open something?
MATT: Yeah, grab some of the ones over there or
there's some packages on the ground with some tubes.
MARISHA: I like tubes.
MATT: Tubes are nice. Tubes are always fun.
MARISHA: This one is from Helen Drula. From
Wisconsin.
MATT: Focus curse you. Focus.
MARISHA: Can you hand me the knife? What did Helen
Drula send from Wisconsin? Oh my god, more cross
stitch! I have a weakness for anything
cross-stitch. I have a weakness for anything
handmade. I have a weakness for Critmas.
MATT: I think that's what it comes down to.
MARISHA: Hang on, I want to see. Helen Drula. Oh
my god.
MATT: What the heck is that?
MARISHA: "TLDR. I wanted to see this phrase on a
nice wall hanging. So I made it. Thanks for the
"stories. Helen a.k.a. VialsofScience."
MATT: Thank you Helen, VialsofScience.
MARISHA: Matt, hang on let me--
MATT: I just want to see it.
MARISHA: Let me make it--
MATT: Oh it's like a banner. Oh snap.
MARISHA: Hang on.
MATT: Oh that's going to go up in the house.
MARISHA: Yeah. The benefit of no one else being
here is we get to claim it first. (laughs)
MATT: Oh that's so cool.
MARISHA: Plus, I mean it kind of is like your
saying.
MATT: It's so crazy to me. It's so crazy to think
that that's like a saying now.
MARISHA: I know.
MATT: I just made it up at a table years ago and
now other people are using now. You have it on
your sweater. That's so stupid.
MARISHA: I'll never forget when it clicked, when
we saw the other Critter game. And they said,
"Okay guys, how do you want to do this?" and
everyone starting laughing. And I was like--
MATT: Oh it's a thing now.
MARISHA: Oh, it's weird. It's like that moment in
The Social Network and they're like, "She just
"said Facebook me."
MATT: Kind of. On a much smaller, less douchey
scale.
MARISHA: Yeah, totally. But that same feeling is
what it evokes.
MATT: Yeah. That's crazy. Thank you! Thank you,
Helen!
MARISHA: Thank you, Helen! I love her TLDR note.
MATT: It's pretty great.
MARISHA: Let's see what the other tube-y tube is.
MATT: (singing) Tube-y tube!
MARISHA: (laughs) What is this?
MATT: It looks golden.
MARISHA: (exclamations) Oh my god! It's a giant
card.
MATT: What?
MARISHA: Happy 50th episode!
MATT: Oh that's awesome! That's a really big card.
That's a big card.
MARISHA: "Thanks for sharing your world with us.
Happy 50th episode." Lauren @dragonmustang01.
"Thank you for the greatest story ever told.
You're all wonderful and I'm so grateful for
"Critical Role." Love, uh... signature. "Thank you
for sharing your wonderful world with us. Here's
"to 50 fantastic more episodes. It means more to us
than you know." @roar_itsmonzy.
MATT: There's also dragonmustang01 up top.
MARISHA: Yeah, I said dragonmustang. Lauren.
MATT: That's so cool.
MARISHA: "Congratulations, Vox Machina." And they
have amazing thank you notes.
MATT: Ashley's in LA. We have her for a few months
before she has to go back to New York, so Pike
will be joining us in person for a while. Yay!
MARISHA: It's a P.S. "Vex, this card is worth
about 35 gold."
MATT: That's so cool.
MARISHA: That's amazing. I love that.
MATT: Thank you, guys!
MARISHA: Just a giant 50th episode card. That is
so cute. Thank you, guys! I have to figure out how
I'm going to put that with all my other cards that
I keep. It won't fit in the box that I usually
keep them in.
MATT: It will fit into that box, the round one
that it came in. (laughs)
MARISHA: Okay. You want to do one?
MATT: That package right there behind you.
MARISHA: This?
MATT: Yeah.
MARISHA: (snorts, laughs)
MATT: And she fell for it! Forever on the
Internet.
MARISHA: I caught myself.
MATT: You did. It was pretty awesome. (laughs)
That was so adorable.
MARISHA: (laughs) Shut up. I'm still getting used
to the ottoman, all right? It's new.
MATT: It's very new.
MARISHA: Uhh-- (exclaims)--
MATT: (laughs) Failed dex save.
MARISHA: (laughs) Shut up, you guys! I just had
800 people watch me eat it. Okay. Oh, this is for
Vex. This is for Vex.
MATT: Yeah, what is it?
MARISHA: They always send a thousand cards and I
have to figure out which one is the right one that
I want. Okay. "Hi, Vex'ahlia. On my next paycheck,
I'm sending donations of two of the charities
listed for everyone on the Critter's Guide. I
really wanted to send you a bear and a gift for
chat for my first gifts to you all." @elderthrud
on Instagram. And he sent this amazing elven dice bag.
MATT: Oh whoa!
MARISHA: With elven opaque, slightly
see-through--
MATT: Oh those are cool. I haven't seen those.
MARISHA: I know! I haven't seen these at all. They
have a bunch of different kinds, too, which are
really rad. That's cool.
MATT: That's fantastic. Cool. We'll make sure to
put those over in the Laura/Vex pile.
MARISHA: Put this in the Laura pile! (singing
nonsense)
MATT: Me and Liam will be players today at 9:30pm
Pacific time to join Ivan for a game with quite a
few other folks, so--
MARISHA: I'm going to be spending it with my dad.
I hope you guys understand. My father is in town,
so dad time.
MATT: Want to switch around?
MARISHA: Yeah!
MATT: All right.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: Just going to-- maybe not sit on your knife.
(laughs) And that was the-- we've already done
that one. All right. Let's-- I'll just grab
these.
MARISHA: There you go.
MATT: We're getting to the bigger stuff now. The
big thing. Marisha already pulled out a bunch of
the tinier things.
MARISHA: Yeah!
MATT: So it's kind of like a fun reveal. All
righty. This is from Kathleen Nelson. Looks like
this is also to Grog.
MARISHA: Grog.
MATT: Get ready to put this over on the pile.
There's a letter to Grog Strongjaw and for me to read
off the air, which I will do. It says, "Master
Grog Strongjaw and Vox Machina, Kord's strength to
"you. Word of your meeting with Earthbreaker Groon
has spread from the temple in Vasselheim to all
"servants of Kord, advising us to render whatever
aid and assistance we're able to in your quest to
"defeat the Chroma Conclave. My name is Rain and I
serve Kord as one of his clerics." Oh! (laughs) Oh
this is cool! It's got individual messages for
Pike as well. From Payne, a bronze dragonborn, AKA
Kathleen Nelson. @starstuff84
MARISHA: Starstuff.
MATT: That's so cool! Oh it's a-- I love getting
written letters. What lies inside here for our
fair Grog? Let us see. Oh, it's got little stone
necklaces for everybody!
MARISHA: Aw!
MATT: That's so cool.
MARISHA: For everybody? Oh my goodness!
MATT: Pieces of Fulgurite.
MARISHA: Fulgurite?
MATT: It's formed when lightning strikes sand,
fusing the individual grains into tubes of glass.
MARISHA: Oh! That's dope!
MATT: That's rad!
MARISHA and MATT: That's so cool.
MARISHA: So many hearts!
MATT: Okay, so this is for everybody.
MARISHA: It's heartsplosion. Heartsplosion!
MATT: With little necklace pieces for everybody.
Well, since we're opening them, I'm going to take
first grasp on these. That's probably for Pike,
though. I'll take these two for us, and then, Percy--
MARISHA: Let me see! I want to see!
MATT: --Scanlan, Keyleth-- there we go.
MATT: Which one do you want of these for yourself?
Which color of these cords do you want? Cords from
Kord. Get it?
MARISHA: Cords form Kord. I like the dark brown.
Yeah, that one.
MATT: There you go.
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: All the rest of these are for the rest of
Vox Machina. We better put them away.
MARISHA: Oh, that is so cool. Let me see if I can
get a good focus on this.
MATT: That is so cool. I'll make sure this gets to
everybody else.
MARISHA: Yeah, that's rad. A little glass tube,
that's crazy. Cool.
MATT: Look at that. Landed right in the pile.
MARISHA: No one saw it.
MATT: But I did and that's all that mattered.
MARISHA: (laughs)
MATT: Shut up. This is from Fallon Burress from
Louisville, Kentucky.
MARISHA: Ay-oh! Fallon!
MATT: All righty.
MARISHA: Chop.
MATT: Oh snap. "Dear Vox Machina, I began these
boxes while Tiberius was still on the show. I
"wanted to see the amazing boxes from Wyrmwood, but
I thought, 'Fuck it.' So here are the same dice
"boxes--" They've been working on this for a while.
"--individualized for each of you. Everything is
"handmade, wood-burned, stained, and glued together
myself." From Fallon Burress, aka Hippy Cannibal.
MARISHA: Hippy Cannibal!
MATT: Custom made, with Grog's name on the back.
MARISHA: They put little cave men drawings
because it's Grog.
MATT: That's so cool. They've got one for
Taliesin. These are really cool. Laura. Sam's is
all purple colored, too.
MARISHA: Perfect.
MATT: Ashley. This one's for you, Marisha. They've
got one for Liam, too.
MARISHA: Let me see. Oh! That's so cute! Oh, it's
got air symbols in it.
MATT: That's badass.
MARISHA: It's got all sorts of different symbols
that mean air, which is fantastic. Oh, and water.
It's got elemental signs.
MATT: Look at the fire side has Charizard!
MARISHA: Does it have Charizard?
MATT: And the Fire Nation symbol.
MARISHA: Oh, that's so funny!
MATT: It's got a Pokemon on each side.
MARISHA: They each have Pokemon! That's so funny
to have each of them.
MATT: Oh, and it's got The 5th Element symbol for
the air.
MARISHA: That's so perfect.
MATT: That's great. Fallon says, "Sorry I ran out
of time to make [me] a box." Don't worry about it,
buddy. These are fantastic. "Thanks for all the DM
tips. They tremendously helped with my campaign.
"Thank you for making this amazing world, and
letting us all be part of it." Of course, thank
you for coming along. "I hope I can convince you
to come to--" E-ville Con? I think it is? I think
it must be a Louisville con. "--as a guest in the
future." Well, tell them you're interested in
having me as a guest. They have to invite us.
That's how it works. That's so cool. Fallon,
amazing gift. We're going to make sure the rest of
the cast get these.
MARISHA: That's awesome.
MATT: Next box. This is from Mark Ball, also from
Louisville, Kentucky.
MARISHA: Oh, lots of Kentucky! It's because my
dad's in town. That's why.
MATT: That's probably why.
MARISHA: He brought the essence.
MATT: This one's got packing peanuts, oh no! My
nemesis! Oh, oh no.
MARISHIA: Oh no, is it something a Kentucky person
would do, like send a bunch of bourbon? Oh no!
MATT: (Evil laughter)
MARISHA: Oh no, you are feeding into his sickness.
What is wrong with you, enablers?
MATT: Oh snap, and here's one for Liam.
MARISHA: Oh Liam! He's going to be stoked.
MATT: Liam was in the chat earlier. Liam, if
you're still watching, you got a box coming your
way, too.
MARISHA: Oh, that's so great.
MATT: Thanks to our fine friend, Mark Ball from
Louisville, Kentucky. That's fantastic. I may have
to open mine at the end of this.
MARISHA: Man, fucking guys is named Mark from
Louisville, am I right?
MATT: Yeah. (laughter) Oh, no! You stay in there!
(giggling) Put this aside for Liam. Oh, this is
mine? I'll open this here in a little bit. Liam's
will be over here. Marisha, want to open some now?
MARISHA: Sure.
MATT: All right. This will go to Liam. I'll bring
it to him tonight.
MARISHA: The spoils table.
MATT: "They bought this house for [my] minis
collection." Pretty much.
MARISHA: Yeah. I saw someone on Twitter be like,
"Wait, did they all actually have to move because
they need more room for stuff?" No, but kind of,
but no.
MATT: BananaMcGee did a great job on that
Bangarang video! That was awesome! All right,
Marisha's got a handful over here.
MARISHA: Okay. Where is the knife? Okay, this one
is from--
MATT: From?
MARISHA: From Ariel Hauptman?
MATT: Ariel Hauptman.
MARISHA: Greyston Bakery. Which I like the sound
of already. The Best Brownie. Oh my god, I think
it's-- "Dear cast and crew of Critical Role, Thank
you for sharing your creativity and joy with us
"all. These brownies are but a small token of
thanks, and while you get delicious treats, the
"money goes to a great cause. Greyston is a
wonderful company devoted to lifting people out of
"poverty in southwest Yonkers--" In Yonkers New
York, "--by providing employment, skills training,
"housing, childcare resources, and more to the
community." That's amazing. The best brownie.
MATT: That's great.
MARISHA: Yep. "Each brownie represents a job that
is self sufficient, and success among people who
"want an opportunity to succeed. And that's what
is even sweeter is that when you bite into our
"Best Brownie, you become part of our solution
to end poverty." That's amazing. That's
the Greyston Bakery in Yonkers.
Fucking love brownies!
MATT: Aww, that's so cute. Aww. As a note, guys,
be careful about sending perishables. If they can
last a few weeks, it's totally fine--
MARISHA: Well, these are packaged.
MATT: Yeah, those are packaged, which is why those
are fine. We've had people send a cake before and
it was an awesome cake, but I think it just barely
got to us in time before it soured, so be careful.
MARISHA: Brown sugar blondies or chocolate fudge
brownies. I want a brown sugar blondie right now.
MATT: Rock it, do it. I'll take one.
MARISHA: You want one?
MATT: I'll take one, too.
MARISHA: Hey, Dad! You want a brownie? That's
amazing. This one's addressed to Sam.
MATT: Well, see what they sent Sam, then. It's fun
to see-- It's very good to open other people's presents.
MARISHA: I know. It feels weird though. It feels
like opening other people's mail.
MARK: Yes?
MARISHA: You want a brownie? Someone sent us a
package of brownies from Yonkers.
MARK: Heck yeah!
MARISHA: There's a chocolate fudge brownie or a
brown sugar blondie. Blondie? That's what I went
for as well.
MARK: Thank you so much. It's what I needed!
MATT: Boom.
MARK: Yeah, needed some energy! Thank you.
MARISHA: (laughs) Okay.
MATT: Everyone says, "Hi, Marisha's dad!" Is it
good?
MARK: My god, so good.
MARISHA: It's from the Greyston Bakery in
Yonkers.
MARK: My lord.
MARISHA: Is it really good? Yeah?
MARK: Good stuff!
MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to keep going.
MATT: "Hi Dadleth."
MARISHA: It's Dadleth! Happy, oh my god! Happy
Father's Day, Scanlan!
MATT: Aww!
MARISHA: "Just a small craft project, I thought
you would enjoy as an early Father's Day gift, and
"I am sure Kaylie would thoroughly approve of you
receiving."
MATT: Who's it from? Does it say?
MARISHA: It just says "ZZ," the initials at the
bottom.
MATT: Okay, should we wait, let Sam open that?
MARISHA: Christine M. Miller. Yeah, I think so.
Right? This one feels a little more personal right?
MATT: Yeah, we'll leave that one for Sam to open
on his own.
MARISHA: Christine M. Miller, this already seems
fantastic. We'll make sure Sam gets it.
MATT: That's so sweet.
MARISHA: It's very beautifully wrapped. Okay, I'll
put that in the--
MATT: Scanlan. Open another one.
MARISHA: This is from... doesn't say.
MATT: Everyone's saying they think it's a box of
poop.
MARISHA: A box of poop!
MATT: From Kaylie.
MATT: That brownie was really good.
MARISHA: I didn't get around to opening mine, it
was taking too long.
MATT: Everyone's like, "Away from yourself with
the knife, away!"
MARISHA: I was.
MATT: I know. They're so worried about watching
you actually cut yourself.
MARISHA: I'm fine, I'm good. It is a box of a
bunch of really adorable Japanese candies. Oh my
god, and they got the Kit Kats. Are there the
green tea Kit Kats in here? Oh, they got the
strawberry Kit Kats. Yeah, they do have the green
tea Kit Kats! These are the best! I don't know who
sent this, though.
MATT: Is it like the special Japanese Kit Kat
flavors that you can't get over here?
MARISHA: Yes.
MATT: Ooh, green tea Kit Kats are the best Kit
Kats.
MARISHA: Citrus Kit Kats? What?
MATT: What? That's a thing?!
MARISHA: What? Oh my god, cheesecake Kit Kats.
MATT: (laughs) Why is Japan so much better at Kit
Kats?
MARISHA: And grape-wine flavored Kit Kat, because
it had a glass of wine on it. Who is this from?
MATT: Bless the mad scientists over in good old
Nippon.
MARISHA: That's a loosely wrapped cookie.
MATT: (laughs)
MARISHA: (laughing) I'm trying-- I'm genuinely
looking for--
MATT: Upside-down, a little bit over.
MARISHA: Oh, here we go, oh.
MATT: Yeah.
MARISHA: No, it wasn't, but I found a letter. It's
at the bottom.
MATT: That's good.
MARISHA: (humming) "Dear Critical Role, Thank you
for your--" handwritten letters! Crazy. "Thank you
"for your weekly entertainment and allowing us into
your fantastical world. I'm currently suffering
"from massive withdrawal having missed the last two
episodes while I was in Japan. I have sent you
"some of the candy and sweets I found interesting
while I was there." Heck yes, you did! "I'm sorry,
"but I don't know what most of it is. I hope you
enjoy it regardless. I apologize for the wasabi
"Kit Kat in advance."
MATT: (scared laughter) Ooh, and there's the
twist, and that's the Stephen King plot twist
right there.
MARISHA: Sincerely, Lindsey R. @crazedred in chat
or @IAmR_Arrow on Twitter.
MATT: (laughs) That's so awesome. Thank you so
much!
MARISHA: And she'll have plenty to catch up on
when she gets back from Japan. If she's not
already back from Japan.
MATT: Thank you so much!
MARISHA: Thank you so much! That's amazing! Oh my
God. There's so many that I need to send you, this
green tea Kit Kat right now, I need it in my-- Oh,
wait. Is that the wasabi one? You know, I kind
of-- I don't know, actually.
MATT: All right, we're down to, like, the last
nine boxes?
MARISHA: Uh-huh. I'm going to open this blondie
with scissors. I'm going to go get more.
MATT: Oh, you won the expansion? That's awesome!
MARISHA: (muffled) Boy, they weren't kidding.
Okay. This is from Sarah Hart. Sarah Hart from Missouri.
MATT: Sorry, I was distracted eating a brownie.
MARISHA: Right? No, what's MI? Michigan?
Michigan.
MATT: Mii! Sarah from Mii! Packaging fluff?
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: Yeah, that stuff in packages will get
everywhere.
MARISHA: Yeah, I didn't realize. Okay. These are
individual boxes for each person in here.
MATT: Appreciate you understanding. It's about
four to six hours of prep each game. Sometimes a
little longer, depending.
MARISHA: This is a really-- this is from
@earthquakedgirl.
MATT: Oh, hello @earthquakedgirl.
MARISHA: On Twitter. Missouri. Right? And this is
a really great letter that I should maybe not read.
MATT: I'm glad you guys are liking the Dwarven
Forge sets. I've been using them when it seems
fitting. I'll still make maps and mats and things,
but Dwarven Forge I'm using--
MARISHA: She also sent individual letters for
everybody? Holy crap.
MATT: She sent individual letters?
MARISHA: Packaging fluff everywhere. What? I did
not know what I was getting into with that. Oh,
man. Oh! These are amazing little boxes! They're
amazing little dice boxes. These are great.
There's Laura's. Oh! She sent the ladies little
jewelry boxes.
MATT: That's so cute.
MARISHA: And she also each sends us letters as
well. Thank you so much, Sarah. That is so sweet.
Okay, we'll have to make sure Ashley and Laura
gets those. That's awesome. It's got little gold
leaf right on it. That's great.
MATT: All right, thank you so much.
MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to trade off with you.
Let me get rid of this.
MATT: Yeah, those Dwarven Forge sets are even
possible because of you guys supporting the show.
All your guys' support has enabled us to get
better lights and get better set pieces and do
more ancillary content and stuff. So yeah, thank
you guys for that. Waiting for Marisha to come
back, here. But yes. Of course. Happy belated
birthday, though I wished you happy birthday
already, Meghan, happy birthday as well. All
right, so here she is.
MARISHA: Where'd that brownie go?
MATT: This is for Laura, Japanese candy. Okay,
this I already opened, I know what it is because
it says on the box, "If received after Critmas,
open immediately," and I was afraid it was, like,
a gerbil. So I opened it, and it comes with this
amazing, "Congratulations, Critical Role, on 50
"amazing episodes," carved, looks legit. Which is
really cool. And a heart on the inside. It says,
"Dear cast and crew of Critical Role: thank you
for all the amazing hours you've given us to
"explore worlds beyond. In honor of your 50th
episode, I've sent you two dozen handmade roses to
"distribute among the cast, crew, and guests as you
see fit, so thank you again. Here's hoping for 50
"more. Sincerely, Amnie S. Clark." Amnie. Amnie S.
Clark. She actually spells it out for me so I can
say it right. Thank you. @storiesanddreams,
ArtByAmnie, and SilverWhispers on DeviantArt.
Awesome, she's actually sent us a bunch of other
stuff as well.
MARISHA: Oh, Amnie!
MATT: Oh, shit! I didn't get this far into it. Oh,
that's so cool.
MARISHA: Whoa!
MATT: Falling off. How cool is that?
MARISHA: She even packaged them like with floral
arrangements! That's so fantastic.
MATT: That's so cool. Amnie, thank you so much.
That took a while. Have you shown the people what
you did with the paper cranes, or the paper
dragons, yet?
MARISHA: I Tweeted it out. Well, I Tweeted out the
jar. I haven't Tweeted out the lamp, because it
was still needing to be repaired. So we'll show
them.
MATT: We'll show them in time. Okay. Amnie, that's
amazing. Thank you so much. I'll hold on to that
one there.
MARISHA: Incredible.
MATT: All righty. What have we got here? This is
from R.C. Boys. I don't think that's who sent it.
I think that was the shipping company or the--
wherever it was purchased from, but we shall
discover who's responsible for this, based on the
two-day Amazon Prime shipping, which is the--
(laughs)
MARISHA: Oh no. Oh no. I have a feeling. I knew
it!
MATT: Now I have the silver dragon, which I don't
have.
MARISHA: You didn't have this one? Holy shit!
MATT: It's from Attack Wing.
MARISHA: Holy shit.
MATT: That's awesome. Open that here in a minute.
MARISHA: All the dragons. All the dragons.
MATT: "Hey Matt: Don't remember you having a
silver dragon--" Which I did not! "-- so I thought
I'd fix that. Merry Christmas. Stewart."
@stewartrockets on Twitter. Stewart, thank you so
much. That's amazing. All of the dragons!
MARISHA: That's amazing.
MATT: This is from--
MARISHA: Shapeways.
MATT: Customs declaration. Shapeways box. Which
you know is a gamer. Let's see. There was a name
on this, but it looks like it's been scratched
out? It says from Craig Waters from the United
Kingdom, but maybe it's not from Craig? Maybe
we'll see a confirmation inside. Open! They're all
like, "Matt, cut away from you!" I know. I like to
live dangerously. YOLO! Ugh, the fact that I said
that makes me feel ill. Oh, there is a letter.
Thank God. "Dear Matt and Vox Machina and the
"entire Critical Role team: First of all, thank you
for your amazing show. You all do a tremendous
"job. It's hard getting up at three o'clock in the
morning to watch your show, but it's well worth
"it." Thank you for waking up at three o'clock in
the morning.
MARISHA: You have more drive than I do.
MATT: Wonderful handwriting, by the way. Far
better than mine. "As a thank you, I'm donating to
each of your preferred charities." Aw! Thank you!
"However, I did want to send a more tangible gift
to Matt for inspiring me to try my luck as a
dungeon master." Hell yeah! "I recently discovered
Hero Forge and tried to create myself a miniature
for each of the Vox Machina crew. They may have a
cameo in the game I used to introduce my brothers
to D&D." That's awesome! People keep asking me if
they can use Vox Machina in their game, or NPCs in
their game, it's like, hell yeah! Go for it!
MARISHA: Immortalize us! Please!
MATT: I love that. It makes me excited that
they're either our NPCs or NPCs based on them are
out there. I think it's really cool. So yeah,
don't ever feel like you have to ask permission.
"I recently discovered Hero Forge--"
blah-blah-blah, I already said that. "Please find
"enclosed a miniature for your own enjoyment. The
plastic is a little grainier than I'm used to
"painting, but hopefully I didn't do too bad of a
job, and if you can figure out what the books in
"his pages open for, that's a bonus. Keep up all
the good work. I look forward to laughing along
"with or facepalming to many great episodes to
come. Sincerely, Craig." It was from Craig. L.M.
Borne in the chatroom, and @CraigTWaters on
Twitter. Thank you so much. Let's see what this
is, here. Whoa! What? (laughs) That's amazing!
MARISHA: That's awesome. Is that you?
MATT: That's me!
MARISHA: Holy shit.
MATT: Hair accurate as of two hours ago.
MARISHA: Oh man.
MATT: That's so cool.
MARISHA: I love that you're wearing the Critical
Role t-shirt.
MATT: Ah, I love it. A dragon in my hand.
MARISHA: You're standing on a d20. That's
phenomenal.
MATT: Yep. And I'm holding the Monster Manual and
that looks like the opening page to-- it looks
like a dragon. Is it a giant on the left page? The
detail on that is fantastic. Love the smirk and
the raised eyebrow. Well played. And the fact that
it's on a d20 base, too. That's so cool. Craig,
that's amazing. Guys!
MARISHA: Yeah, that's pretty fantastic.
MATT: Guys. Oh man. That's going to live on my
desk forever. Forever. Okay.
MARISHA: That's kind of great.
MATT: We're getting down to the wire, here, and
then I'm going to open my minis, and then you guys
can go. I know it's a long time.
MARISHA: Here, you want to trade off?
MATT: Yeah, actually. You open some.
MARISHA: Let's see what these are.
MATT: I'm surprised people are still hanging out.
That's so awesome. "Now Vox Machina can stand off
"against the ultimate big bad. Matt."
MARISHA: Yeah!
MATT: That would be such a fast fight.
MARISHA: Large base mat.
MATT: Grog smashes Matt. Game over.
MARISHA: (grunts with effort) Oh. Well, that failed. That did
not work. Ha-ha! Got it. Okay, this came also
somewhere from the U.K. Ooh. This is from
Naomithinksit. This is from Naomithinksit.
MATT: Naomithinksit!
MARISHA: Walkers? She sent Walkers Marmite potato
chips.
MATT: (laughing) What? That's awesome.
MARISHA: This is a little package for you, it
looks like.
MATT: Oh, what?
MARISHA: Oh my gosh. This one's for Vax, and
here's a letter for the Critical Role cast and
crew. Oh! "You are invited to partake in GISHWHES."
Oh, they're inviting us to-- that's funny. I don't
know if we'd-- we'd be terrible teammates. We are
so busy. That is so fantastic. And then-- oh! Oh,
these are probably the wishes. That's so funny.
Maybe-- we'll see what we can do, but we make no
promises considering how insanely busy we are. But
that is still phenomenal. Thank you so much. And
she sent a package for you and for Vax.
MATT: And for Vax? Okay.
MARISHA: Do you want to open yours real quick?
MATT: Sure. Want to pass around? Switch off?
MARISHA: Yeah. Switch off!
MATT: Congrats on trying out dungeon mastering.
Have fun with that, man. It's such a rewarding
experience. Sincerely. You're going to have fun
with it. There's a tiny little bag. I get the
sincere feeling it's dice-related by its shape.
MARISHA: (laughs) Or it's, like, a truffle.
MATT: Or it's a dice truffle and we're both right.
Oh, whoa. That's a cool-looking die. Check that
out. It's like a white and red swirl d20.
MARISHA: It's so big!
MARISHA: That's awesome.
MATT: That's really cool.
MARISHA: It rolled an 11. Not bad.
MATT: Not bad.
MARISHA: Nice and average.
MATT: Okay. This is the letter from whom it is.
(laughs)
MARISHA: Oh wow! (gasps) Shut--
MATT: Yep.
MARISHA: --the front door.
MATT: "A glorious 50th episode." They made a
pop-up Gilmore casting magic cards.
MARISHA: That's fucking amazing.
MATT: How cool is that? (whooshing noise)
MARISHA: That is so great.
MATT: Man! Your guys' creativity is ridiculous.
MARISHA: I know! I would never think of anything
like that.
MATT: "Enclosed: a blood hunter d20." That's
awesome!
MARISHA: Oh, that's sick.
MATT: "A glorious d6." Oh man. That is, indeed,
(as Gilmore) "a glorious d6."
MARISHA: Very purple.
MATT: (as Gilmore) "Ha ha."
MARISHA: (laughs) That's so ridiculous.
MATT: What?
MARISHA: (as Matt) "Ha ha!"
MATT: A Critical Role music tape?
MARISHA: Music tape?
MATT: A musical tape. Not ready yet?
MARISHA: Oh man. That is also a very long
handwritten letter, which is also crazy.
MATT: From Naomi. You're amazing. Let me get this
open. Hand me the scissors.
MARISHA: Uh, here they are.
MATT: Scissors attack! Bam! Vox Machina has
problems with doors. I have problems with wrapping.
MARISHA: (laughs) You know, we all have to have
our issues.
MATT: (laughs) Critical Role: The Musical. It's a
cassette tape.
MARISHA: It's a mix tape! Holy shit! Oh, boy, this
is also a gift for you, Matt. I'm just going to go
ahead and hand it over.
MATT: Well, hold on. I'm going to have to listen
to this. It has-- the A side says, "Songs: You're
a Dagger to My Heart. Vax. I Would Like to Rage.
Grog. Baby, I'm the Shit. Scanlan. Breathing in
Smoke. Percy. Hey, Boo. Keyleth and the Sun Tree.
Glorious. Gilmore. Gold, Gold, Gold. Vex.
Sarenrae's Warmth. Pike. You Can Certainly Try.
DM. Make Me Something Lovely. Vex and Percy.
Bonus: My Name is Tiberius Stormwind of Draconia.
Poppycock." Aww. And it has the other side. "Yes
For Taking Trinket. Dirt Makes It Better. Baby,
I'm Bad News. Awful Feelings." Oh, this is so
cool. I'm-- we're going to have to find-- I'm
going to put this in my car.and listen to it.
"Warning: Not a real mixtape. Seriously, even if
there's a cassette player." Even better. We can
make it our own mixtape. We can put songs on it.
MARISHA: Oh my gosh.
MATT: That's fantastic.
MARISHA: That's amazing. I love the mixtape.
MATT: And a letter about their D&D campaign is
included.
MARISHA: Nice.
MATT: That's awesome. Excited to read about that.
The wrapping is quite glorious. They did a
fantastic job.
MARISHA: Yeah, I love it. I might have to
repurpose, if you're not destroying all of it. I
might reuse it.
MATT: No, I'm destroying all of it.
MARISHA: I do like recycling-- could be used--
MATT: Nah. This is all being destroyed. Sorry.
MARISHA: Yeah. Yeah, it is.
MATT: It's wrapped in a way where it's the only
way to do it.
MARISHA: It's still salvageable.
MATT: What is...
MARISHA: (squeaky) What'd you get? What'd you get?
What'd you get!? What is it? Oh, is that--
MATT: It's an embroidered Allura. What the shit?
MARISHA: You've got to be shitting me.
MATT: That's amazing! Look at that!
MARISHA: Hang on, let me-- oh my god. Oh my god,
you guys! The amount of detail in that!
MATT: That's incredible.
MARISHA: What? I've never seen anything like that
in embroidery.
MATT: It's so soft, too.
MARISHA: Is it? Oh my goodness, gracious.
MATT: Wow. Okay. So that's also going on my wall.
MARISHA: Yeah, let me see it?
MATT: Look at that. Look at that. That's so cool!
Thank you, Naomi!
MARISHA: That's so great. Wow. That's... That's so
great.
MATT: It's stupid.
MARISHA: I'm trying to think
of where we would hang that. I've got a few ideas.
Okay, here, I want to-- I went to the trouble of
opening this one for you.
MATT: What is this one?
MARISHA: For you. To kill us.
MATT: (laughs hysterically) It looks like a cloud
of Bahamuts are entering this sphere.
MARISHA: Fucking cloud.
MATT: That is fantastic. That's so cool!
MARISHA: The day the sky went dark.
MATT: Who is this from?
MARISHA: I don't know. It just says a game store
on there.
MATT: Well. Here's the cool thing: because I
had a Critter already give me a Bahamut, this
one I will be able to gift to one of the Critters
in the audience who doesn't have it. So I can
include this randomly with one of the gift
packages that gets won by chat, in the near
future. So whoever sent this, you have done a
fantastic job of gifting this to another
individual, who is very much in need of this for
their own campaign. Thank you so much, really
appreciate that. Do let me know who it was if you
are watching this.
MARISHA: Absolutely.
MATT: So cool!
MARISHA: Okay. This--
MATT: Do you want me to turn it around for you?
MARISHA: Oh man, you guys! Oh my goodness gracious.
"Dear Vox Machina and their not-so-benevolent god.
"No need to read this on air." Okay, it's nothing
bad. But she said, "I just wanted to share some of
"my favorite teas with you all and I figured I'd
make some personalized infusers for the group to
"sip in style. Enjoy. Kelly in St. Louis." Well,
Kelly in St. Louis, amazing. She sent some Peppy
Peppermint herbal tea. She sent Nettle Greek
Mountain. Ooh.
MATT: Durpono said, "More tea for the so much tea
basket."
MARISHA: More tea for the so much tea basket, yes.
So much tea. To be fair I have been drinking
more-- I've been inspired to drink more. Which is
good. It's good for you. "This has Greek mountain
"tea, nettle leaves, lemongrass, orange wedges,
lime tree blossoms, marigold blossoms, chamomile
"blossoms, and other natural flavors." This one I'm
keeping.
MATT: (laughter) Marisha is to tea as Matt is to
minis.
MARISHA: Yes. What? She sent some-- also from
Steeped Tea-- some BLT cheese ball mix.
MATT: What!?
MARISHA: Some BLT cheese ball seasoning mix.
MATT: What, what?
MARISHA: And it has the instructions on them.
MATT: The woman that sent us the fulgurite necklaces
just came into chat. Thank you so much!
MARISHA: Did you send us the fulgurite necklaces?
Thank you. Those are so cool! I picked the
dark brown cord because, druid.
MATT: Kord's strength.
MARISHA: Wow, she sent so many! Fine and Dandy.
That might have to be Scanlan. Earl Grey de la
Creme. Pina colada rooibos tea, mint chocolate
chip rooibos tea, Ginger Lemon Sunshine green tea,
Candy Orange. Jeez, and she even sent little
steeping sacks. And then-- hang on, let me get the
rest, take those back a bit so it's not crazy. And
she sent-- awesome, you have your own steeping
thing with a d20. A tea steeper with a d20 on it.
MATT: What?! That's so cool! I'm using that after
this Periscope!
MARISHA: Yeah, I'm thinking I might have to make some
tea. Mine has little feathers on it. She put a
little feather charm. Laura's has a bear. Travis
has a battle axe on his, which is sick. Burt Reynolds has
a mustache. Ash-o-lee has angel wings, Sarenrae
feathered wings.
MATT: That's awesome. Person asked, "Why would a
party fight Bahamut, he is lawful good?" Yes, not
all parties are necessarily good aligned, my
friend. Besides, Bahamut could also come in and aid
you, depending on the situation. If your campaign
works in large gods. You never know.
MARISHA: Liam's has two daggers. Taliesin's has a
gun.
MATT: That's so cool.
MARISHA: Oh shit. Oh my God, Kelly from St. Louis,
you spoiled us.
MATT: What did Kelly do?
MARISHA: She also sent us 24 honey tea sticks,
which, I just eat these straight. Like a crack
addict. Oh, they got different flavored ones!
MATT: Marisha Ray, rocketing to diabetes one day
at a time.
MARISHA: I love honey. It's the best. This is just
the best.
MATT: Have a good night! Thank you for coming!
MARISHA: Have a good night, you guys! This is
amazing. Thank you so much, Kelly from St. Louis!
I loved St. Louis. We loved the museum there, the
kids' museum. What's that called? What's the
museum? The City Museum!
MATT: Yeah, The City Museum, one of the coolest
places in the country.
MARISHA: This is awesome. Thank you so much! Okay,
there's a few more boxes.
MATT: Then mini-opening frenzy, then we've got to
go. Aw, thank you, Meghan! All right, Marisha,
what you got? We've got those two there and the
one by your foot.
MARISHA: Ooh, that one's heavy. Here. Do you want
to open that one?
MATT: Sure.
MARISHA: Hold it and I'll start--
MATT: All right. Okay. This one is-- fuck, you
hear the airplane overhead. We live right under a
flight path. The things you want to make sure you
have as a voice actor, but it makes the landscape more
affordable. I'm just calling it like it is! Come
on, work with me! Priority Mail box, for this, you
too shall suffer! Yes. Sweet, sweet freedom. This
is from Mark Hendrickson of Melbourne, Florida.
Florida, that's my old stomping grounds growing
up. And I escaped. There are parts of Florida that
are great. The part I was in was not so
great. What is this?
MARISHA: Sorry.
MATT: Oh, what?!
MARISHA: Hi from Louisiana!
MATT: What?! Oh cards, cards fell out everywhere!
Oh, Mark sent cards. "Words: to appear on stream
"or not as you will. Also cards for whoever wants
one. Also ale."
MARISHA and MATT: Also ale.
MATT: A whole bunch of cards. Awesome. Ugh, I'm
knocking everything over. Aw, it's a little
notecard! Aw! "Hey y'all. I once happened upon a
YouTube video from a small web show called Critical
"Role and thought, 'This looks interesting!'
Immediately addicted, I binge watched every
"episode until I was caught up on the stream. In
one of those five live sessions, I watched Ashley
"have to say her goodbyes. Pike leaving was a
genuinely touching moment, the first of many. I
"had an unexpectedly strong emotional impact, the
echoes of which led to this portrait of her. This
"painting came unbidden, unintended. It began as a
quick sketch on a scrap piece of board that was
"laying around. Over time, it grew into clarity,
and became focused. I thought you should have it."
MARISHA: Holy shit.
MATT: "Thank you for sharing your game and
friendship with the rest of us. You keep me
"company while painting late Thursday nights. Love
you all and view you as friends, even though we've
"never met. Which, now that I think about it, is
spelled 'stalker.''
MARISHA: No. Lies.
MATT: That's what's great about this whole
community: even though we haven't met, we're all
friends. It's pretty cool. Any Critter who I've
met in person would say the same. "Here's to the
"50th episode and to many more! Love, Mark
Hendrickson." Oh, these are the sketches, I think,
or different ideas.
MARISHA: Whoa! Mark!
MATT: I haven't even seen this yet. I want to open
it and see it. What's the worst that could happen?
MARISHA: We have so many bags of trash. This going
to be a cryer?
MATT: I don't know, is it?
MARISHA: Oh my god, yes!
MATT: What the shit?! It's gold leafed and
everything!
MARISHA: It's fucking gold leafed! It's an oil
painting! That's an oil painting!
MATT: That's incredible!
MARISHA: It looks like something you'd see at the
Louvre!
[ice cream truck music]
MATT: And the creepy ice cream truck in the
background!
MARISHA: There it goes!
MATT: That's amazing!
MARISHA: Wow!
MATT: Mark, that's amazing!
MARISHA: That's got to go to Ashley.
MATT: Oh yeah. Oh no, it has to.
MARISHA: She's totally going to hang that up.
MATT: She's going to flip out. She's going to
burst into tears. Look at that! Oh my god. "Pike.
"Oil and gold leaf on board. Mark Hendrickson
2016." That's so incredible!
MARISHA: Wow. You guys. Everyone in this community
is so fucking talented.
MATT: Artists, writers, musicians.
MARISHA: That's Ashley's D&D character that now
exists in an oil painting. That's insane.
MATT: I can't even.
MARISHA: This one's also for you, Matt.
MATT: It's what? Oh my god. She's going to freak
out.
MARISHA: She is going to freak out.
MATT: "Matt Mercer, members of Vox Machina, and
all the Geek and Sundry crew, please find my gift
"for your 50th episode enclosed. There's also a
flavor letter that Matt may or may not choose to
"use. I found this show not long after the arrival
at Kraghammer and I've been an avid watcher ever
"since. I believe I've completed two complete binge
watches, and I'm sure there'll be more."
MARISHA: What?!
MATT: "Geek and Sundry was the first channel I
subscribed to. I have to go to work, stay hooman,
"how do you want to do this, and is it Thursday
yet? In Sarenrae we trust, signed Lucius
"Seawalker," or lucifer753 in Twitch chat.
MARISHA: (laughs)
MATT: Tiamat. We got a Bahamut, and we got a
Tiamat. Pairing of glory.
MARISHA: Oh. Shit.
MATT: These guys get along, right, I think?
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: Right? I think they were old college
buddies.
MARISHA: Yeah, you know.
MATT: Actually, she looks a little perturbed.
That's fantastic.
MARISHA: That's so funny. Okay, let me
open this box over here.
MATT: Well, this is the letter we have to open.
Oh, look at that! It's all burnt. I'm such a
sucker for well-weathered D&D stuff. Ahh! It's got
little sayings for everybody. It's so cool! I'm
going to put that with the torch and everything,
let the group to read. Thank you so much Lucius,
it's amazing. All righty. Marisha's opening-- is
this the last one, Marisha?
MARISHA: Yes. There should also be bigger
envelopes as well, but I might open those when you
open minis.
MATT: Minis? Okay. All right, there's Marisha.
MARISHA: Oh, goodness! These are whiskey toffee
brownies.
MATT: What, that's a thing?!
MARISHA: Made with 1971 Schenley Reserve whiskey
from Ryan Gottlieb.
MATT: Oh, Ryan!
MARISHA: Aka Nuclearspatula.
MATT and MARISHA: Yeah!
MATT: I didn't know that existed! I didn't realize
that was an option of things to have in life!
MARISHA: There's the letter. And there's a little
bit of--
MATT: Yeah, it's true. Booze and everything,
you're right. I should've assumed.
MARISHA: This is crazy. He sent an amazing
letter.
MATT: The artist who painted the Pike portrait is
Mark Hendrickson.
MARISHA: This is such an amazing-- thank you so
much for this letter, Ryan. Keep your chin up and
hold in there, for sure, but he said, "The
announcement for the 50th episode-- Critmas being
"relegated to only the holidays," he knew he had to
send something and that he does bake. He's like,
"I'm not an artist, I don't draw or paint, but I
do bake," so he made all of us a batch of homemade
whiskey toffee brownies made with 45-year-old
Schenley Reserve whiskey.
MATT: Wow. Thank you so much, Ryan!
MARISHA: That's amazing, yep, aka Nuclearspatula.
That's-- oh. And he said, "P.S., please tell
"Ryan," P.A. Ryan, "that I made sure these are free
from any poison, as I know he is allergic," So
that is fantastic! He will be so greatly
appreciative.
MATT: Yeah, he will.
MARISHA: But look at this, look at these brownies!
Oh my god! They look so sticky!
MATT: That whiskey's older than me twice?
(laughter)
MARISHA: That's an excellent point!
MATT: Oh wow.
MARISHA: Oh my god! Okay, that's happening. All
the brownies! Let me save the letter. Save the letter!
MATT: Save the cheerleader. Save the world. If
only that show was any good past the first season.
Trying desperately to not have the angle of the
camera turned to just your butt.
MARISHA: Sorry.
MATT: It's okay. All right, those are all the
presents opened, I think. If anybody who's
watching--
MARISHA: I'm going to prop the camera up kind of
like I did so I can open a few letters, make sure
there's no--
MATT: If for whatever reason you sent a Critmas
present and it didn't get to us or we didn't open
it on stream, check in with Ryan or go ahead and
write me an email. If you go to my webpage-- I
guess it's having a problem if you're seeing it on
mobile, but if you look at my webpage on regular
desktop, there's a submission form. Submit to me
the information about what you sent and I'll see
if I can track it down. Chaos happens sometimes
and we're trying to do our best. We're also just a
small group of people with a lot of things that
apparently have come in, but we'll do our best.
Anyway, let's get to our mini unboxing now because
I have to prepare for our game tonight. Oh man.
This is so cool. It's disturbing how much I enjoy
this whole process. So! First box unveiled! We
have-- oh! What the heck? That's cool.
MARISHA: What is that?
MATT: It's an invisible stalker!
MARISHA: Oh!
MATT: That's the coolest invisible stalker model
I've seen so far, actually. We also have, it looks
like, a githyanki.
MARISHA: Nice.
MATT: It has a cool haircut. We've got a big old
beetle, giant fire beetle. Looking all beetle-like
and stuff. And we've got a bulette climbing out of
the ground and being all bulette-like. Boom. First
pack done. We won't be here all night, folks.
Keeping this going at a good pace. Trying. All
right, next one. (giggling) A unicorn! Aw yeah!
The day that Vox Machina faces off with an army of
unicorns is going to be a great day. We've got a
dryad coming out of that pack, fantastic.
(chuckling) Poor dryads. They've had a rough time
recently in our game.
MARISHA: Yeah, sorry.
MATT: Oh, cool, we've got a ghost. A floating
ghost with the lantern. And a wolf. Angry nature
wolf. Box number two down. All right. Time for
box three. Oh, what? I'll show you that in a
second. That's cool. We have an invisible female
dwarf, the sword in the air, which is cool. She
ever goes invis, we got that. Oh, that one's cool,
yeah! This is a specter, I think it is? Yeah,
specter, which is a creepy-looking, purplish ghost
form with arms and a head reaching out of it. The
sculpts and the paint job of these minis has
improved so much even since the first set came
out. It's so cool what they're doing with it now.
And a satyr! Grasping his most dangerous weapons,
a scimitar and a pan flute, as a satyr should. And
a fey spider, which just looks creepy as shit, the
way it's ready to jump at you. It's really cool.
Fey spiders are nasty, if you guys don't know what
fey spiders do, look it up.
If you guys have ever played Baldur's Gate,
you hate fey spiders. And sword spiders, those
guys were bastards.
MARISHA: I got this letter. I was reading this
letter and I wanted to do a quick shoutout.
MATT: Do it. Do a shoutout. Come over here next to
me.
MARISHA: This is from Katie Volker, aka
@TestSubjectNerd, and she said her mother, Jane
Volker, is currently in the process of walking the
west coast of Ireland along the Wild Atlantic Way,
a 1500-mile road trail that lines the entire west
coast. "As I'm writing this letter, she's walked
"around 200 miles. If you could ask people to check
out her Facebook page and her blog, I'd be very
"grateful. She's raising money for the RNLI, or the
Royal National Lifeboat Institute."
MATT: Well that's cool.
MARISHA: Yeah, the Royal National Lifeboat
Institution.
MATT: That's really cool. Where can they find it
again on Facebook?
MARISHA: On Facebook:
facebook.com/wildatlanticwanderer1.
MATT: Wildatlanticwanderer1.
MARISHA: Or she has a blog:
www.wildatlanticwanderer.blogspot.co.uk.
MATT and MARISHA: That's really cool.
MARISHA: Awesome, and thank you so much for your
kindness, TestSubjectNerd.
MATT: Thank you TestSubjectNerd. I got a mummy.
And I got a dual-wielding dwarf dude with a cloak.
Crossbow, I think he's a ranger? Therithar Goldrin
is his name, and he's a dwarf, which means he's
awesome because dwarves are awesome. I've got a
medusa with an awesome headpiece. And a displacer
beast. I love the new sculpt of the displacer
beast, by the way, they look amazing.
MARISHA: What do they look like?
MATT: Their pose and their musculature, it's a
great sculpt. They did a fantastic job with this
set. All right, halfway done, folks. Bear with me.
All righty, we've got here-- (chuckling). Woe be
those who wander in subterranean places these
days. All right, we've got a will-o'-wisp, which I
love the new will-o'-wisp sculpt, it looks really
cool. Stand up straight! We've got a lich! That's
a cool mini for a lich. See that, Marisha? Lich.
Check that out.
MARISHA: Oh, shit, that's awesome!
MATT: That's probably my favorite lich mini
they've ever done. Also got-- oh! Werewolf. Useful
should any players befall a terrible fate and take
up Order of the Lycan. That's actually really
cool. And gelatinous cube. I'm building an army of
these now. Must absorb every hero ever. Get in the
thing! All right, three more. We're down to the
wire now, we got this.
MARISHA: Nicole Young, who sent us jewelry before,
sent you, and also a gift for Liam and Taliesin,
which I will deliver to them, this hand-wrapped--
her and her mom made this-- hand-wrapped dragon
eye pendant that she wrapped in copper wiring.
MATT: That's so cool-looking! You see this? Look
at that.
MARISHA: She sent us jewelry before, and I'm sorry
I got your name confused. Sometimes cards get
switched up. But thank you, that's incredible,
Nicole.
MATT: That's fantastic, Nicole.
MARISHA: Nicole Young from Ontario.
MATT: I got a fairy dragon. It's all blue and
pretty. I got-- that female dwarf you saw earlier?
Not invisible. So, both forms, which is rad. I got
this guy whose name is Hommet Shaw. I think he's a
character from the Sword Coast Legends game or
something else, which, if I recall, is visually
based on-- friend of Critical Role and also
awesome D&D player, I've had the opportunity
playing a few episodes, Thomas Middleditch, who is
the lead of Silicon Valley and his amazing D&D
character. And I got the other half of what makes
a fey spider so scary. When they phase. And that's
cool, I didn't know they had both options. Two
more. I never, ever get sick of this, this is my
favorite thing ever. I derive far too much joy
from this process of opening mini boxes.
MARISHA: Oh, shit.
MATT: That is an empty case. Oh, it's because it
fell out. Yes! Mimic! (evil chuckling)
MARISHA: I just got another letter with another
wax seal and a Celtic knot.
MATT: Oh snap! What is that, is that Gaelic? What
is the language right there by the side?
MARISHA: I don't know, it's got a bunch of rune
symbols.
MATT: Strahd zombie.
MARISHA: Ugh, wax seal. It's a handwritten-- oh
no, I don't want to rip it.
MATT: Angry yeti! Gah! All right, one more box.
Oh, sorry. And this-- oh, okay! I got an orc,
which is awesome. We've got Ildia Naythellan, a
little player character, which is cool. I got
another will-o'-wisp, so I can fill space with
them in case you guys get lost. And-- (evil laughter).
I can pull it out of its case here real
fast for you. I remember seeing if this was part
of the set and I really badly wanted to get one,
so I'm glad that they had one. We have a young
remorhaz, which looks really cool as part of the
setup. Pretty excited about that. That's a cool
final one to pull, actually. So those are my
boxes, I'm curious to see what Liam pulls. We
might do a trade depending on what we get. That's
a good pull, we got some good stuff there. All
right, I'm going to turn this onto Marisha now.
Marisha!
MARISHA: Once again, I got another letter-- trying
to slowly go through the letters-- an amazing long
handwritten letter, but he was smart and wrote a
shorter blurb version. This is from Kyle Eugene
William Teach. He said, "I wanted to thank you all
for what you do. You do far more than you know--
"came across Critical Role in a difficult time in
my life. I was taking a course for the Air Force
"where they condensed three to four years of
instruction to a year and a half," that's insane.
Late into the course, his grandfather passed, and
then a few months later, his grandmother passed,
and they were very close. He said in thanks-- and
he said and then he found us. It got us through
the difficult time and coins like these have a
history back to World War I. A coin like them with
a squadron insignia got an Allied downed pilot
through occupied France, gaining him safe passage
and aid because the French recognized it.
MATT: Oh wow.
MARISHA: "The only ID the previously captured
pilot held onto. And since you got me through, I
"thought it was fitting."
MATT: Aww.
Thank you so much, Kyle.
MARISHA: He sent us each-- from the United States
Air Force-- sent us each these gorgeous Presidio
of Monterey challenge coins.
MATT and MARISHA: That's incredible, thank you so
much, Kyle.
MARISHA: These are absolutely gorgeous, and yes,
I'm slowly getting through letters. I'm sure
there's more over there.
MATT: Guys, thank you.
MARISHA: So bear with us as we get through
things.
MATT: It's all good. Yeah, it's a process.
MARISHA: But thank you so much, each and every one
is so humbling and so appreciated.
MATT: Seriously. There's the mini spread there for
those who wanted to see the full haul. Look at
that little guy. All right, time for us to try and
get ready.
MARISHA: Love you guys. I know you have Tabletop
Day and I have to get back to helping my dad.
MATT: Yeah, I just saw that Geek and Sundry hit
20k! 20k donations already set up today, guys.
MARISHA: Oh my goodness gracious! You guys are
insane! That's amazing.
MATT: Seriously, well done guys. All right, thank
you all for joining us-- I falter in trying to
express emotions, perpetually.
MARISHA: Always.
MATT: But you guys are amazing. You make all of
this worthwhile, and look forward to seeing how
they pull themselves out of this one next week. It
should be interesting. Anyway, guys. If you're
watching tonight, I'll see you at 9:30. Otherwise,
have a wonderful night. (mwah) Thanks for coming
and is it Thursday yet?